V9: Add scheduling documentation (#3433)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: Reference/Notifications/Creating-And-Publishing-Notifications.md

---
versionFrom: 9.0.0
verified-against: rc002
meta-title: Creating and Publishing Custom Notifications
meta.Description: How to create and publish your own custom notifications
state: complete
update-links: true
---

# Creating a custom notification

> There may be many reason why you would like to create your own custom notifications, in this article we'll use the CleanUpYourRoom [recurring hosted service](../Scheduling/index-v9.md) as an example, which empties the recycle bin every 5 minutes. You might want to publish a notification once the task has started, and maybe once the task has sucessfully cleared the recycle bin.
> 
> For a notification to be publishable there's only one requirement, it must implement the empty marker interface `INotifiaction`, the rest is up to you. For instance we might want to create a notification that just signals that the clean your room task has started and nothing else, in this case we'll create an empty class implementing `INotification`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There may be many reasons why you would like to create your own custom notifications, in this article we'll use the CleanUpYourRoom [recurring hosted service](../Scheduling/index-v9.md) as an example, which empties the recycle bin every 5 minutes. You might want to publish a notification once the task has started, and maybe once the task has successfully cleared the recycle bin.

For a notification to be publishable there's only one requirement, it must implement the empty marker interface `INotifiaction`, the rest is up to you. For instance, we might want to create a notification that just signals that the clean your room task has started and nothing else, in this case, we'll create an empty class implementing `INotification`
```

```C#
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Notifications;

namespace Umbraco.Cms.Web.UI.Notifications
{
    public class CleanYourRoomStartedNotification : INotification
    {

    }
}
```

> This notification can now be published, and we can create a notification handler to recieve it with, see [MediaService-Notifications](MediaService-Notifications.md) for an example of how to implement a notification handler. But this notification alone might not be super helpful, we might want to be able to send some additional information with the notification, however, since this is, in essence, just a normal class, we can include whatever information we want. Let's try and create a `RoomCleanedNotification` which contains the amount of nodes removed from the recycle bin:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This notification can now be published, and we can create a notification handler to receive it with, see [MediaService-Notifications](MediaService-Notifications.md) for an example of how to implement a notification handler. But this notification alone might not be super helpful, we might want to be able to send some additional information with the notification, however, since this is, in essence, just a normal class, we can include whatever information we want. Let's try and create a `RoomCleanedNotification` which contains the number of nodes removed from the recycle bin:
```

```C#
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Notifications;

namespace Umbraco.Cms.Web.UI.Notifications
{
    public class RoomCleanedNotification : INotification
    {
        public int ItemsDeleted { get; }

        public RoomCleanedNotification(int itemsDeleted)
        {
            ItemsDeleted = itemsDeleted;
        }
    }
}
```

Now you can create a handler that recieves the amount of items deleted through the notification.

# Sending notifications

Just creating the notification classes is not enough, we also want to be able to publish them. There's two ways of publishing notifications:

* `IEventAggregator` - Notifications published with `IEventAggregator` will always be published immediately.
* `IScope.Notifications` - Notifications published with a scope will only be published once the scope has been completed and disposed. 

> The method you use to publish notifications depends on what your needs are, the benefits of publishing notifications with a scope is that the notification will only be published if you complete the scope, and then only once the scope is disposed. This can be useful if you access the database, or do some other operation that might fail causing you to do a rollback, disposing the scope without completing it, in this case you might not want to publish a notification that signals that the operation was a success, using scopes will handle this for you. On the other hand you might want to publish the notification imidiately no matter what, for instance with the `CleanYourRoomStartedNotification`, for this the `IEventAggregator` is the right choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The method you use to publish notifications depends on what your needs are, the benefits of publishing notifications with a scope is that the notification will only be published if you complete the scope, and then only once the scope is disposed of. This can be useful if you access the database, or do some other operation that might fail causing you to do a rollback, disposing of the scope without completing it, in this case, you might not want to publish a notification that signals that the operation was a success, using scopes will handle this for you. On the other hand, you might want to publish the notification immediately no matter what, for instance with the `CleanYourRoomStartedNotification`, for this, the `IEventAggregator` is the right choice.
```

            IContentService contentService,
            IScopeProvider scopeProvider,
            IEventAggregator eventAggregator)
            : base(HowOftenWeRepeat, DelayBeforeWeStart)
        {
            _contentService = contentService;
            _scopeProvider = scopeProvider;
            _eventAggregator = eventAggregator;
        }

        public override Task PerformExecuteAsync(object state)
        {
            // This will be published immediately
            _eventAggregator.Publish(new CleanYourRoomStartedNotification());

            using IScope scope = _scopeProvider.CreateScope();
            int numberOfThingsInBin = _contentService.CountChildren(Constants.System.RecycleBinContent);

            if (_contentService.RecycleBinSmells())
            {
                _contentService.EmptyRecycleBin(userId: -1);
                // This will only be published when the scope is completed and disposed.
                scope.Notifications.Publish(new RoomCleanedNotification(numberOfThingsInBin));
            }

            // Remember to complete the scope when done.
            scope.Complete();
            return Task.CompletedTask;
        }
    }
}
```

> In this case the `CleanYourRoomStartedNotification` will always be published imidiately, however `RoomCleanedNotification` will only be published once the operation is done, and if you remove the `scope.Complete();` line it will never be published, the recycle bin won't be emptied either. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the `CleanYourRoomStartedNotification` will always be published immediately, however, `RoomCleanedNotification` will only be published once the operation is done, and if you remove the `scope.Complete();` line it will never be published, the recycle bin won't be emptied either. 
```
